this brings us to our final clever
improvement to the a-list class how do
we turn this or horrible I said it that
way and a horrible parabola into this
beautiful line so if we look at this
resize method here
that's our site this code right here
that's our problem
something here is broken and what I want
you to do is try and consider how you
might fix this now the solution to this
problem is actually a bit tricky and
even after I show you you might be a
little mystified and we'll cover the
analysis later but what you do is maybe
give it a shot maybe even try out the a
list speed test to test your solution
and I'll spoil it in a moment so let's
actually go back to our speed testing an
environment now let's look at our a list
class this is our trouble so perhaps you
thought what if I increase the amount by
which we resize maybe by I don't know
from one to ten so if I recompile my
code and now I do speed test a list
I'll see it's fast it's not as fast as a
s list it was pretty fast and while that
seems to be a big improvement there's
actually something a little subtle here
that's tricky
I mean that's subtle things often are
and that's if we increase our speed test
a list runtime up to a million and now
we try running it again it's quite slow
it should not be like this
in fact it's taking quite a long time so
even though we increased this size up to
ten we were only kind of hiding the
problem there's still a big problem here
so there's actually a bigger better
solution which is rather than adding ten
I'm gonna multiply by some number let's
say two so let's try now by multiplying
the size of our array if we try running
it it's quite fast look how fast it is
in fact I can crank this thing up to ten
million try running it again should
still be pretty fast and that's actually
the state-of-the-art approach and real
list like the list inside of Python
basically uses this multiplicative trick
so what we have right here this add last
approach where we add some random factor
or some scaling factor our factor this
is unusable bad the
sizing factor if used in an additive way
it's just not gonna work I mean unless
you cheap and you make our factor super
big but then that's cheating because
then you just keep around a size billion
list I mean of course that works by
contrast if we actually use a
multiplicative or geometric rescaling
then we get great performance this is
wonderful this is how all kinds of lists
out there implemented but we can't do
the analysis yet we're gonna wait till
after the midterm to go into detail so
for now we're treated us some kind of
wizard magic that this is the right
approach now there's still a little bit
more we want to do which is that
occasionally we'll have an issue where
our list gets super big it goes up to a
billion items and then we removed 999
million items so at that point we're
only using one percent of our available
or of our array and that's wasteful
right I mean we could always make a list
fast that uses an array by keeping a
giant array but that's just a waste of
space and so the question is what do we
actually want to do to make this better
I kind of spoiled that problem okay
that's fine so what can we do to make it
better well often what we'll say is an
ArrayList has a usage ratio you might
call it or a load factor and that's
simply the size of the array divided by
the length of the site the size of the
list divided by the length of the array
that represents the last and so often
what you'll do is if the load factor
that usage ratio falls below 25% then
you will have the array size and we'll
do some more details in this in a few
weeks so just as an example let's say we
have here an array that's it has length
100 but the list is only size 4 and so
the usage ratio here is only 4% that is
well less than 25% so this should have
been resized at some point and so this
actually drives home a really important
trade-off between time and space
efficiency
we'll see this over and over again we'll
talk about things like hash tables and
how we can exploit space to save time
that'll be a big theme of this course so
with that we have now built basically an
ArrayList
we'll have to do a little bit more
tweaking but that's the core idea the
most important stuff
and with this next little video you'll
be ready to finish a project on it